Reference for stage-3 arraybuffer-base64 (#36387)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/uint8array/setfrombase64/index.md

---
title: Uint8Array.prototype.setFromBase64()
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array/setFromBase64
page-type: javascript-instance-method
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Uint8Array.setFromBase64
---

{{JSRef}}

> The **`setFromBase64()`** method of {{jsxref("Uint8Array")}} instances populates this `Uint8Array` object with bytes from a [base64](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Base64)-encoded string, returning an object containing how many bytes were read and written.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`setFromBase64()`** method of {{jsxref("Uint8Array")}} instances populates this `Uint8Array` object with bytes from a [base64](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Base64)-encoded string, returning a `{ read, written }` object indicating how many bytes were read and written.
```

- `read`
  - : The number of base64 characters read from the input string. It is either the length of the input string (including padding), if the decoded data fits into the array, or a multiple of 4 up to the last complete 4-character chunk that fits into the array. If a chunk has more data than the remainder of the array can hold, that chunk will never be split (because the remaining bits cannot be partially "put back" into the base64 without completely re-encoding it); it will be entirely ignored, resulting in the last one or two bytes of the array not being written.
- `written`
  - : The number of bytes written to the `Uint8Array`. Will never be greater than this `Uint8Array`'s {{jsxref("TypedArray/byteLength", "byteLength")}}.

### Exceptions

- {{jsxref("SyntaxError")}}
  - : Thrown if the input string contains characters outside the specified alphabet, or if the last chunk does not satisfy the `lastChunkHandling` option.
- {{jsxref("TypeError")}}
  - : Thrown in one of the following cases:
    - The input string is not a string.
    - The `options` object is not an object or `undefined`.
    - The options are not of the expected values or `undefined`.

> ## Examples

Reviewer: It might be worth having an example of how to write to a specific offset by using`subarray`. Such as:

(I don't know if I got the `jsxref` syntax right.)

### Writing to a specific offset

`setFromBase64` always writes starting at the beginning of  the `Uint8Array`. If you want to write to the middle of a `Uint8Array`, you can use {{jsxref("TypedArray.prototype.subarray()")}}.
 
```js
const uint8Array = new Uint8Array(8);

const result = uint8Array.subarray(2).setFromBase64("Hello World");
console.log(result); // { read: 9, written: 6 }
console.log(uint8Array); // Uint8Array(8) [0, 0, 29, 233, 101, 161, 106, 43]
```

### Decoding a base64 string

This example uses the default `alphabet` and `lastChunkHandling` options to decode a base64 string into an existing `Uint8Array`.

```js
const uint8Array = new Uint8Array(8);
const result = uint8Array.setFromBase64("Hello World");

> console.log(result); // { read: 11, written: 7 }

Reviewer: Ditto above comment about human-readable inputs to `setFromBase64`.

---
title: Uint8Array.prototype.setFromBase64()
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array/setFromBase64
page-type: javascript-instance-method
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Uint8Array.setFromBase64
---

{{JSRef}}

The **`setFromBase64()`** method of {{jsxref("Uint8Array")}} instances populates this `Uint8Array` object with bytes from a [base64](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Base64)-encoded string, returning an object indicating how many bytes were read and written.

> For the general concepts around base64 strings, see the [base64](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Base64) glossary entry. This method is most suitable for populating a pre-allocated array buffer. If you just want to create a new `Uint8Array` object from a base64-encoded string, use the static method {{jsxref("Uint8Array.fromBase64()")}} instead.

Reviewer 2: I would omit the first string, or push it after the real content. My reason is that you already provide a link to the glossary entry - if people are not sure of the details they will have gone there aleady.

```suggestion
This method is most suitable for populating a pre-allocated array buffer. If you just want to create a new `Uint8Array` object from a base64-encoded string, use the static method {{jsxref("Uint8Array.fromBase64()")}} instead.
```

## Syntax

```js-nolint
setFromBase64(string)
setFromBase64(string, options)
```

### Parameters

- `string`
  - : A base64-encoded string to convert to a `Uint8Array`. It has the same requirements as the [`string` parameter of `Uint8Array.fromBase64()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array/fromBase64#string). Note that the string is only read up to the point where the array is filled, so any invalid base64 syntax after that point is ignored.
- `options` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An object customizing the base64 string interpretation process. It has the same requirements as the [`options` parameter of `Uint8Array.fromBase64()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array/fromBase64#options).

### Return value

An object containing the following properties:

- `read`

>   - : The number of base64 characters read from the input string. It is either the length of the input string (including padding), if the decoded data fits into the array, or up to the last complete 4-character chunk that fits into the array. Chunks will never be split (because the remaining bits cannot be partially "put back" into the base64 without completely re-encoding it); if the next chunk cannot fit into the remainder of the array, it will be entirely unread, resulting in the last one or two bytes of the array not being written.

Reviewer 2: I think this parses a little better.

```suggestion
  - : The number of base64 characters read from the input string. If the decoded data fits into the array this is the length of the input string (including padding); otherwise it is the length up to the last complete 4-character chunk that fits into the array. Chunks will never be split (because the remaining bits cannot be partially "put back" into the base64 without completely re-encoding it); if the next chunk cannot fit into the remainder of the array, it will be entirely unread, resulting in the last one or two bytes of the array not being written.
```

- {{jsxref("TypeError")}}
  - : Thrown in one of the following cases:
    - The input string is not a string.
    - The `options` object is not an object or `undefined`.
    - The options are not of the expected values or `undefined`.

## Examples

### Decoding a base64 string

This example uses the default `alphabet` and `lastChunkHandling` options to decode a base64 string into an existing `Uint8Array`.

```js
const uint8Array = new Uint8Array(16);
const result = uint8Array.setFromBase64("PGI+ TURO PC9i Pg==");
console.log(result); // { read: 19, written: 10 }
console.log(uint8Array);
// Uint8Array(16) [60, 98, 62, 77, 68, 78, 60, 47, 98, 62, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
```

### Decoding a big string into a small array

If the string contains more data than the array can hold, the method will only write as many bytes as the array can hold, without discarding any bits.

```js
const uint8Array = new Uint8Array(8);
const result = uint8Array.setFromBase64("PGI+ TURO PC9i Pg==");
console.log(result); // { read: 9, written: 6 }
console.log(uint8Array);
// Uint8Array(8) [60, 98, 62, 77, 68, 78, 0, 0]
```

> Note how the last two bytes of the array are not written, because to decode the next two bytes, we need to read three more base64 characters, which represent 18 bits, resulting in 2 trailing bits being discarded. Therefore, we can only write 2 chunks, or 6 bytes, to the array.

Reviewer 2: Sentence needs to be shortened - it is hard to read. One option:

```suggestion
Note how the last two bytes of the array are not written. To decode the next complete chunk of the string we would need to be able to read three more base64 characters, which represent 18 bits. These can't fit into the remaining two bytes of the array, so we can only write 2 chunks, or 6 bytes.
```

### Setting data at a specific offset

The `setFromBase64()` method always starts writing at the beginning of the `Uint8Array`. If you want to write to the middle of the array, you can write to a {{jsxref("TypedArray.prototype.subarray()")}} instead.

```js
const uint8Array = new Uint8Array(16);
// Start writing at offset 2
const result = uint8Array.subarray(2).setFromBase64("PGI+ TURO PC9i Pg==");
console.log(result); // { read: 19, written: 10 }
console.log(uint8Array);
// Uint8Array(16) [0, 0, 60, 98, 62, 77, 68, 78, 60, 47, 98, 62, 0, 0, 0, 0]
```

### Stream decoding

> This example is adapted from the [original proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-arraybuffer-base64/blob/main/stream.mjs), showcasing how to implement streaming in userland. It mimics the {{domxref("TextDecoder")}} API with the `stream` option. Note the use of `lastChunkHandling: "stop-before-partial"` to handle incomplete chunks.

Reviewer 2: What does the term "in userland" mean?

Author: As opposed to a platform API.

Reviewer 2: Redundant then.

```suggestion
This example is adapted from the [original proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-arraybuffer-base64/blob/main/stream.mjs). It mimics the {{domxref("TextDecoder")}} API with the `stream` option. Note the use of `lastChunkHandling: "stop-before-partial"` to handle incomplete chunks.
```
